🔹 What is lex.yy.c?
lex.yy.c is the C source file generated by Flex (or win_flex) when you run:

bash
Copy
Edit
win_flex lexer.l
It contains the C code for the lexer, which is responsible for scanning the input and breaking it into tokens (like int, +, identifier, etc.).

🔹 Purpose of lex.yy.c:
It implements the tokenizer (also called a scanner).

It reads your lexer.l file (where you've defined patterns like [0-9]+ for numbers).

Converts those regex-like rules into efficient C code for identifying tokens.

Works together with Bison to provide tokens for parsing.

🔹 Key Functions Inside lex.yy.c:

Function	Purpose
yylex()	Main function Flex generates; returns the next token to the parser.
yyin	File pointer used to read input (stdin or file).
yytext	Holds the current matched text (e.g., the number or keyword matched).

win_bison -d parser.y
you’re using Bison (specifically the Windows version) to generate a parser from your grammar file parser.y.

🔹 What exactly happens?
Running win_bison -d parser.y generates two important files:


File	Description
parser.tab.c	This is the parser implementation in C. It contains the logic to parse based on your grammar rules.
parser.tab.h	This is the header file that declares the tokens. It’s used by lex.yy.c to know about the token types. The -d flag tells Bison to generate this header.
🔹 How do these fit in?
Your lexer (from lex.yy.c) returns tokens.

Your parser (from parser.tab.c) processes those tokens using rules defined in parser.y.

They work together to read and understand code (like a mini compiler or interpreter).

gcc code.c lex.yy.c parser.tab.c parsetree.c -o my_compiler.exe
is used to compile and link the C source files that make up your compiler, and produce an executable (my_compiler.exe).

Let's break down the components of this command:
gcc: This is the GNU Compiler Collection, which compiles and links C programs.

code.c: This is a C source file that contains your custom logic, such as functions for handling the program's execution flow. For example, it could include the logic for reading input, managing the parse tree, etc.

lex.yy.c: This file is generated by flex from your lexer.l. It contains the C code that implements your lexer. The lexer breaks the input source code into tokens (like keywords, identifiers, numbers).

parser.tab.c: This file is generated by bison from your parser.y. It contains the parser implementation that is responsible for analyzing the structure of the code, based on the grammar you define in parser.y.

parsetree.c: This file contains the logic for handling or managing the parse tree (usually functions to create, traverse, and print the parse tree).

-o my_compiler.exe: The -o option tells gcc the name of the output file to generate. In this case, it will create an executable named my_compiler.exe.

How it fits together:
lex.yy.c (generated by flex from lexer.l) processes the input code and converts it into tokens.

parser.tab.c (generated by bison from parser.y) takes the tokens from the lexer and checks whether they match the structure of the language you define in the grammar.

code.c contains the logic for the actual processing or evaluation of the program (e.g., interpreting or compiling).

parsetree.c handles any operations related to constructing or printing the parse tree, which represents the structure of the program as determined by the parser.

Compilation Process:
The lexer (from lex.yy.c) reads the input and splits it into tokens.

The parser (from parser.tab.c) takes those tokens and checks whether they follow the syntax rules defined in parser.y.

code.c handles additional operations (e.g., code execution, storing variables, etc.).

The final output is the my_compiler.exe executable.